NETWORKING
when 2 or more than 2 network interface interact each other over internet
components of networking:
1.2 or more than 2 network interface
2.cables or physical devices to connect
3.Network interface cards or NIC
4.switches: allow to connect more than network interfac.
5.Router:allow to connect networkinterface to diferent network itself. it connect to multiple network.


ISO international organisation of standardization

OSI model :open system interconnection model
OSI stands for Open System Interconnection is a reference model that describes how information from a software application in one computer moves through a physical medium to the software application in another computer.OSI consists of seven layers, and each layer performs a particular network function.OSI model was developed by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in 1984, and it is now considered as an architectural model for the inter-computer communications.OSI model divides the whole task into seven smaller and manageable tasks. Each layer is assigned a particular task.Each layer is self-contained, so that task assigned to each layer can be performed independently.

The OSI model is divided into two layers: upper layers and lower layers.: 1234------>responsibility of the host
                                                                                                                              567-------->responsibility of the network



the layers are :

application layer   |these three are interconnected
presentation           |
session                    |
transport 
network ------------>router
data link
C

when one person sending data over a network data transfer from up to down------->application  to physical 
when one person recieve data he recieve from down to upward( till network layer he will not able to understand the what data it is.) --------->Network

In physical layer the data get transfer from cables in form of bits i.e 0 and 1
In data link layer the adat get transfer through switches (Mac address)  used in corporat offices
In Network layer router (IP DATA PACKETS) is used toiiallow u to connect through deifferent different devices
The Data link layer is responsible for routing and forwarding the packets.A router is a networking layer system that we can use for managing and forwarding the data packets into various computer network

Layer 4
transport layer-----------------------gateway-----------------------------------------------------segments
s. A gateway is very different. It is basically hardware or a device that acts as a gate among various available networks.
The main responsibility of the transport layer is to transfer the data completely.It receives the data from the upper layer and converts them into smaller units known as segments
application and presentation layer and session layer  ------------------------------------data




DHCP  ----------------->Dynamic host confirguration protocol

between the router and a network there is gateway router (the service provider allow u to connect through different networks using gateway router whether it would jio,airtel etc. )

IP ADDRESS

IPv4 address is a 32 bits address
IPv6 address is a 64 bits address


SUBNETWORK :
                             It is division of network .


address class system-----------------> class A class B class C
                                                  [first octet reperesents:Network address and other three is Host address
                             